BC-Mexico-Quake ,0073 | Strong Quake Shakes Central Mexico .
MEXICO CITY -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake shook central Mexico on Saturday , but there were no immediate reports of casualties .
The quake was felt in Mexico City , amtropolis of 18 million .
It started around 10:20 a.m. and lasted more than a minute .
Buildings along Reforma Avenue , the main east-west throroughfare could be seen swaying wildly .
There was no immediate read on magnitude .

BC-Mexico-Quake , 1st Ld-Writethru ,0119 | Strong Quake Shakes Central Mexico | Eds : Adds quake center details .
MEXICO CITY -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake shook central Mexico on Saturday , but there were no immediate reports of casualties .
The quake was felt in Mexico City , amtropolis of 18 million .
The shaking started around 10:20 a.m. and lasted more than a minute .
Buildings along Reforma Avenue , the main east-west thoroughfare , could be seen swaying wildly .
There was no immediate reading on magnitude .
John Minsch of the U.S. National Earthquake Center in Golden , Colo. , said the center was aware of the quake in Mexico , but had n't yet been able to get any fix on the location or magnitude .

BC-Indonesia-Earthquake | Strong Earthquake in Indonesia .
JAKARTA , Indonesia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.6 rocked the easternmost province of Irian Jaya on Friday morning , the meteorology and geophysics agency said .
There were no immediate reports of damage or casualties , it said .
It said the quake was centered 125 kilometers -LRB- 80 miles -RRB- southwest of Jayapura , the province 's capital , about 3,700 kilometers -LRB- 2,300 miles -RRB- northeast of Jakarta .
Its tremors were felt 400 kilometers -LRB- 250 miles -RRB- away , the agency said .
An earthquake of magnitude 5 is considered `` very strong , a 6 `` severe , ' capable of widespread damage near the epicenter .

BC-Japan-Earthquake | Strong Earthquake Shakes Northeastern Japan .
TOKYO -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude reading of 5.4 shook northeastern Japan early Wednesday , the Meteorological Agency said .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
The agency said the earthquake struck at 12:45 am -LRB- 1545 GMT Tuesday -RRB- and was centered 90 kilometers -LRB- 55 miles -RRB- below the ground in Iwate prefecture -LRB- state -RRB- , about 480 kilometers -LRB- 300 miles -RRB- north of Tokyo .
Near the epicenter , the quake was strong enough to visibly shake buildings and spill a glass of water , the agency said .
A quake with the same magnitude reading struck beneath the Pacific about 300 kilometers -LRB- 190 miles -RRB- northeast of Tokyo Dec. 10 , also without causing injury or major damage .
-LRB- bks -RRB-

BC-Indonesia-Earthquake | Strong Earthquake Rocks Lampung .
JAKARTA , Indonesia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5 rocked the capital of Lampung province in southern Sumatra , the official Antara news agency reported Saturday .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries from the quake that struck at 11:33 am -LRB- 0433 Thursday -RRB- Antara said .
It quoted the Meteorology and Geophysics agency as locating the quake 's epicenter at 285 kilometers -LRB- 180 miles -RRB- west of Bandar Lampung , the provincial capital , which is about 200 kilometers -LRB- 125 miles -RRB- northwest of Jakarta .
In February , a quake measuring 6.5 hit the province , killing at least 200 villagers and destroying thousands of houses .

BC-Indonesia-Earthquake | Strong Earthquake Jolts Parts of Eastern Indonesia .
JAKARTA , Indonesia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake rocked parts of the eastern Indonesia province of Maluku , but there were no reports on damage or casualties , the Meteorology and Geophysics Agency said Saturday .
The quake , with a preliminary magnitude of 5 , jolted Maluku 's capital of Ambon and surrounding areas at 1406 GMT Friday , said Taufik Rivai of the agency .
He said the quake was centered in Seram Sea , about 100 kilometers -LRB- 62 miles -RRB- northwest of Ambon , which is 2,300 kilometers -LRB- 1,437 miles -RRB- northeast of Jakarta .
It was believed to be the first earthquake this year to rock the area , known to be prone to the seismic upheaval .
At least three strong earthquakes struck the province last year , including a 6.8 tremor in January that killed six people on Hamhera Island .
An earthquake of magnitude 5 can cause considerable damage in populated areas near the epicenter .

BC-Japan-Earthquake | Strong Earthquake Rocks Western Japan .
TOKYO -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 7.2 rocked western Japan early Tuesday .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injury from the 5:46 am -LRB- 2046 GMT -RRB- earthquake , centered 20 kilometers -LRB- 12.5 miles -RRB- under the ground on the island of Awaji off Osaka , 450 kilometers west of Tokyo .
The quake measured six on the Japanese scale of seven in the port city of Kobe near Osaka , the Central Meteorological Agency said .
A quake of six can shook buildings violently , crack asphalt and burst underground pipes .
No warning was issued for tsunami , or tidal waves caused by earthquakes .
-LRB- kph -RRB-

BC-Colombia-Quake ,0078 | Quake Hits Colombia .
BOGOTA , Colombia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake rocked parts of Colombia on Thursday .
There were no reported injuries .
Authorities reported the 10:05 am quake had a preliminary magnitude of 6.9 at its epicenter .
Radio reports said the temblor was strongest in northeastern Colombia .
The quake lasted about 30 seconds in the capital Bogota , shaking buildings and sending some frightened residents running into the street .

BC-Indonesia-Quake | Strong Earthquake Jolts Sumba Island | Eds : One name correct for Sariman .
JAKARTA , Indonesia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.1 rocked part of Sumba island in eastern Indonesia , the meteorology and geophysics agency said Saturday .
There were no immediate reports of damage or casualties .
The quake , which struck at 4:11 am local time Saturday , jolted the town of Waipangu in Sumba island , 1,550 kilometers -LRB- 970 miles -RRB- east of Jakarta , said Sariman , an agency spokesman .
He located the quake 's epicenter in the Sawu sea , between Sumba and Timor island , at a depth of 61 kilometers -LRB- 38 miles -RRB- .

BC-Colombia-Quake ,0129 | Another Earthquake Jolts Colombia .
BOGOTA , Colombia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.7 rocked a large part of Colombia on Sunday .
No injuries or damage were immediately reported .
The 5:41 am quake was centered about 75 miles -LRB- 120 kilometers -RRB- northeast of Bogota , near the border of the departments of Boyaca and Casanare , according to the Institute of Geology and Mines .
It was followed by amgnitude-4 .2 quake at 6:26 a.m. , the institute said .
A magnitude-6 .5 quake struck the area on Thursday and was followed by aftershocks measuring 5.2 and 5.4 on Friday and Saturday , respectively .
As of Saturday , the series of quakes had killed eight people , injured more than 50 and left more than 2,000 people homeless .

BC-US-Alaska Quake ,0107 | Strong Quake Shakes South-Central Alaska .
PALMER , Alaska -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake rattled a wide area of south-central Alaska on Sunday .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
The quake had amgnitude of 6.2 and was centered in Cook Inlet about 180 miles -LRB- 290 kms -RRB- southwest of Anchorage , said Wayne Jorgenson of the Tsunami Warning Center in Palmer .
The quake , which struck at 11:14 am , was felt over an area that includes Homer , Kenai , Anchorage and Kodiak , Jorgenson said .
Much of the area is sparsely populated .
An earthquake with amgnitude of 6 can cause heavy damage .

BC-Indonesia-Quake | Earthquake Hits Eastern Indonesia .
JAKARTA , Indonesia -LRB- AP -RRB- An earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.2 rocked an Indonesian island Monday , a week after it was hit by a stronger tremor that damaged at least 1,000 houses , officials said .
There were no reports of casualties or damage in the latest quake on Obi island in northern Maluku , said Ario Fauzi , head of the Meteorology and Geophysics Agency .
Fauzi said Monday 's quake was centered in the Molluccan sea , about 2,400 kilometers -LRB- 1,500 miles -RRB- northeast of Jakarta .
He said 165 small tremors have been recorded since the first quake on Jan. 13 , which had a preliminary magnitude of 6.3 .
No casualties were reported in that quake .

BC-Colombia-Earthquake ,0114 | Strong Earthquake Hits Northeast Colombia , No Injuries or Damage | Reported .
BOGOTA , Colombia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake shook northeastern Colombia on Thursday , but there were no immediate reports of injuries or damage .
The morning quake , which had a preliminary magnitude of 5.8 , was centered near the town of Jordan , 155 miles -LRB- 250 kilometers -RRB- northeast of the capital Bogota , the Geophysics Institute of the University of the Andes reported .
Two 6.5 magnitude quakes have hit Colombia this year .
A Jan. 19 quake killed eight , and another , on Feb. 8 , left at least 44 dead , mostly in the town of Pereira , 110 miles -LRB- 175 kilometers -RRB- northwest of Bogota .

BC-Indonesia-Quake | Earthquake Rocks Kalimantan , No Injuries Reported | Eds : One name correct for Yusuf .
JAKARTA , Indonesia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.5 caused panic in East Kalimantan province Tuesday , but there were no reports of damage or casualties , amteorological official said .
The quake 's epicenter was about 65 kilometers -LRB- 40 miles -RRB- east of Tarakan town , about 800 kilometers -LRB- 500 miles -RRB- northeast of Jakarta , in the South Sulawesi Sea , said Yusuf of the Meteorological and Geophysical Agency .
People ran from their homes when the quake struck at 3:43 am -LRB- 1843 GMT Monday -RRB- in the province on Borneo Island , he said .
A quake with amgnitude of 5 can cause moderate damage and one with a 6 serious damage in populated areas .

BC-Japan-Earthquake | Strong Earthquake Jolts Northern Japan .
TOKYO -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 6.2 rocked northern Japan Friday afternoon .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries from the undersea earthquake , which occurred at 2:23 p.m. -LRB- 0523 GMT -RRB- , local police said .
The quake 's epicenter was centered at a depth of 390 kilometers -LRB- 242 miles -RRB- under the ocean in southern part of the Sea of Okhotsk , off Japan 's northernmost main island of Hokkaido .
There was no fear of tsunamis , seismic waves triggered by undersea disturbances such as an earthquake or volcanic activities , the Central Meteorological Agency said .
A magnitude of 5 earthquake is considered `` very strong , '' and a 6 `` severe , ' capable of widespread damage .
-LRB- km -RRB-

BC-Japan-Earthquake | Fairly Strong Earthquake Shakes Areas Near Tokyo .
TOKYO -LRB- AP -RRB- A fairly strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 5.1 shook areas southwest of Tokyo Tuesday night , but police said there were no immediate reports of damage or injuries .
The quake was strong enough to shake houses and topple vases in Shizuoka , 150 kilometers -LRB- 90 miles -RRB- southwest of the capital , the Central Meteorological Agency reported .
It said the quake , at 8:26 p.m. -LRB- 1126 GMT -RRB- , was centered 20 kilometers -LRB- 12 miles -RRB- undersea off Shizuoka .

BC-Indonesia-Earthquake | Strong Quake Rocks Sumba Island .
JAKARTA , Indonesia -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake has jolted an island in eastern Indonesia , but there were no immediate reports of damage or casualties , amteorology official said Saturday .
The quake , with amgnitude of 5.6 , struck Sumba Island in eastern Indonesia at 21:01 local time -LRB- 1301 GMT -RRB- Friday , said Sumber Harto of the Meteorology and Geophysics Agency .
He located the quake 's epicenter 100 kilometers beneath the Indian Ocean .
The tremor , which lasted for about 16 seconds , shook houses in Waingapu district of the island , 1,530 kilometers -LRB- 956 miles -RRB- southeast of Jakarta .
A quake with amgnitude of 5.5 rocked Morotai Island , about 2,500 kilometers -LRB- 1,560 miles -RRB- northeast of Jakarta , Thursday .
There were also no reports of casualties .

BC-Japan-Earthquake | Two Fairly Strong Earthquakes Shake Japan .
TOKYO -LRB- AP -RRB- Two moderately strong earthquakes shook central Japan early Monday , one in the same region hit Jan. 17 by the catastrophic temblor that killed more than 5,500 people in and around Kobe .
There were no immediate reports of damage or injuries from Monday 's quakes , which struck central Japan at 1:19 and 2:36 am -LRB- 1619 and 1736 GMT Sunday -RRB- , both with preliminary magnitude readings of 3.3 , according to the Central Meteorological Agency .
Monday 's first quake struck just below the ground under Wakasa Bay on Japan 's west coast about 120 kilometers -LRB- 75 miles -RRB- to the northwest of the second quake , which hit the Kobe area just 10 kilometers -LRB- six miles -RRB- beneath the ground .
The site of the second quake is about 480 kilometers -LRB- 300 miles -RRB- southwest of Tokyo .
It was strong enough to rattle windows and swing hanging lamps in Kobe .
-LRB- bks -RRB-

BC-Greece-Earthquake | Strong Earthquake Shakes Northwestern Greece .
ATHENS , Greece -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 6.6 shook northwestern Greece on Saturday , the Athens Geodynamic Institute reported .
There were no immediate reports of injuries or the extent of damage .
The quake struck at 11.47 am -LRB- 0847 GMT -RRB- in the vicinity of the town of Kozani , about 300 kilometers -LRB- 180 miles -RRB- northwest of the capital , the institute said .
The quake was felt in cities as far apart as Athens in the south and Salonica in the north , radio stations reported .
A quake with amgnitude of 6 is capable of causing severe damage , one of magnitude 7 can cause heavy , widespread damage .
nk

BC-Greece-Earthquake ,0128 | Strong Earthquake Shakes Northwestern Greece .
ATHENS , Greece -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake shook northwestern Greece Saturday , slightly injuring 15 people , authorities said .
The quake , with a preliminary magnitude of 6.6 , damaged many houses across the region .
The temblor struck at 11:47 am -LRB- 0847 GMT -RRB- near the town of Kozani , about 300 kilometers -LRB- 180 miles -RRB- northwest of the capital , the Athens Geodynamic Institute said .
Athens ' Skai radio station reported that 28 of the 30 houses collapsed in the nearby village of Kalamitsi .
Authorities said the quake damaged powerlines around Kozani and destroyed a warehouse in Salonica .
An earthquake with amgnitude of 6 is capable of causing severe damage , one of magnitude 7 can cause heavy , widespread damage .

BC-Japan-Earthquake | Strong Quake Hits Northern Japan .
TOKYO -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake hit large portions of Hokkaido in northern Japan Tuesday , the Central Meteorological Agency said .
There were no immediate reports of serious injuries or damage from the quake , which registered a preliminary magnitude of 5.6 .
NHK , Japan 's public broadcasting network , said there was no danger of tsunami , or large ocean waves , triggered by the earthquake , which hit shortly after 7 p.m. -LRB- 1000 GMT -RRB- and was centered 10 kilometers -LRB- six miles -RRB- below the earth 's surface .
The quake measured 5 on Japan 's scale of 7 in Hokuryu , 875 kilometers -LRB- 540 miles -RRB- northeast of Tokyo .
That would be strong enough to crack walls , overturn gravestones , and damage chimneys .

BC-Quake 5-28 0126 Strong quake jolts Russian Far East island of | Sakhalin .
MOSCOW , May 27 -LRB- Kyodo -RRB- A strong earthquake measuring 7.5 on the Richter scale jolted the Russian Far East island of Sakhalin on Saturday night , but there were no immediate reports of casualties or damage , the Russian Emergencies Ministry said .
The magnitude of the quake was bigger than that of the Jan. 17 earthquake which devastated the western Japanese port city of Kobe and which measured 7.2 on the Richter scale .
The epicenter of the Russian quake was near the settlement of Okha , close to the island 's northern tip , the ministry said .
A strong earthquake in the Russian-held Kurile islands east of Sakhalin last October killed at least 11 people .
The islands are clamd by Japan , where they are known as the '' Northern Territories . ''

Greece-Earthquake | Strong Quake Hits Northern Greece .
SALONICA , Greece -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake shook northern Greece early Tuesday causing some panic among residents but police said no serious damage to dwellings or injuries were reported .
The earthquake recorded at 07:36 am -LRB- 0437 GMT -RRB- had a preliminary magnitude of 4.8 , and rolled through Kozani , west of this capital of northern Greece , the Geodynamic Institute said .
The strong tremor was preceded by a smaller one of 3.7 four hours earlier which alerted many residents of Kozani and surrounding areas to evacuate their homes .
Police said initial reports indicated minor damage to buildings that had already been hit in a 6.6 earthquake April 13 in the same area that devastated villages and slightly injured 16 people .
pd

BC-Japan-Quake | Strong Earthquake Rocks Tokyo .
TOKYO -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake jolted the Tokyo area Monday morning , rocking skyscrapers and bringing trains to a halt .
The quake struck at 8:53 with a preliminary magnitude of 5.6 , at a depth of 120 kilometers .
It originated in the Sagami Bay , southwest of Tokyo , weather officials said .
Buildings rattled and shook violently but there were no reports of damage and injuries immediately after the quake , police said .
The quake was felt as far as neighboring Chiba prefecture -LRB- state -RRB- , according to the Central Meteorological Agency .

BC-Greece-Earthquake ,0156 | Strong Tremor Rocks Northern Aegean Islands .
ATHENS , Greece -LRB- AP -RRB- A strong earthquake with a preliminary magnitude of 4.9 rocked the northern Aegean Sea islands of Skiros and Lesvos early Wednesday , but there were no reports of damage or injuries .
The epicenter of the quake , which struck at 1:57 am -LRB- 2257 GMT Tuesday -RRB- , was in the sea area between the islands , 150 kilometers -LRB- 90 miles -RRB- northeast of the Athens , the Athens Geodynamic Institute announced .
A magnitude 5 quake is capable of causing considerable damage .
On June 15 , a 6.1-magnitude quake near the port town of Egion in western Greece killed 26 people .
On May 13 , a quake measuring 6.6 destroyed hundreds of buildings and left thousands of people homeless in the northwestern towns of Kozani and Grevena and their surrounding villages .
Hundreds of aftershocks have followed those initial quakes .

